<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet"
            type="text/css"
            href="rsrc/css/reading_view_css.css"/>
      <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Cinzel" rel="stylesheet"/>
      <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Yrsa" rel="stylesheet"/>
      <title>Gulshani English</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1>Reading View</h1>
      <h2> ToC </h2>
      <hr/>
      <ol>
         <li>
            <a href="#loc47">Qarakol Province</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#loc46">Ghijduvan</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#loc48">Wabkand</a>
         </li>
      </ol>
      <h2>Sections</h2>
      <h3 id="loc47">Qarakol Province</h3>
      <p>The second <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">province</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">wilāyat ū ḥukūmat</span>
            </span> of the provinces of Bukhara is the <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">district</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">qaẓā</span>
            </span> of Qarakol. Its distance from Bukhara the Noble is seven <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">farsakhs</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">A "farsakh" is an old Persian unit of measurement, around 4
                    miles.</span>
            </span>.</p>
      <p>This province is vast and populous. The denizens of this province are all well-off, and
            all of them <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">have livestock</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">have herds</span>
            </span>. In the past, this province was even vaster; [but then] in the span of a
            century, sand enveloped a quarter of the province from the west, north, and south.
            Nevertheless, [Qarakol is among] the most propserous of the provinces. Due to a <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">lack of learning</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">ʿadam-i ʿilm</span>
            </span>, the population does not engage in trade. However, in this province there are
            many individuals who own more than one or two million <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">Tanga</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">a currency</span>
            </span>, and many of them are even wealthier than the Bukharan merchants. Qarakol
            [sheep] skins are well known for their high value, and are even more prized in <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">Europe</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">Ūrūpā ū Farangistān</span>
            </span> than in Bukhara, and are obtainable in greater numbers and earlier [in the
            season] than in other provinces.</p>
      <p>In this province there is: one <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">brick and mortar</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">sangīn</span>
            </span> madrasa and one <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">qārī-khāna</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">Qur'an recitation center</span>
            </span>; adjacent to the <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">fortress</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">Qurghan</span>
            </span> are seven <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">sufi lodges</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">khānaqāh</span>
            </span> (both wooden and stone) and eighteen mosques. [The province] comprises 809
            villages, which contain 150,000 residents. </p>
      <p>Water in this province is inadequate, but despite that, agriculture is good. In a bad
            [drought] year, the land is irrigated, which leads to a strong harvest.</p>
      <p>To the west of this province is a <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">salt mine</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">maʿdan-i namak</span>
            </span>, located four farsakhs <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">from the center</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">az markaz-i qażā-yi ān</span>
            </span>. Every year around ten thousand individuals beset by <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">illnesses of the nerves</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">amrāż-i ʿaṣabānī</span>
            </span>, such as <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">back pain</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">ʿirq al-nisā</span>
            </span>, come to this salt mine for treatment. Even foreigners consider the mineral
            water from this mine to be superior to others.</p>
      <p>To the east of this province, in the territory of <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">Paykand</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">Paykand was indeed a major silk road town destroyed during the
                    Arab conquests.</span>
            </span>, there is a ruin in the sand. This is in fact the original, ancient city of
            Bukhara, and <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">Ubaydallah ibn Ziyad</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">The text actually identifies this Arab general as ʿAbdallāh
                    ibn Ziyād, but the author surely intended ʿUbaydallāh ibn Ziyād (d. 686), who
                    led the first Arab invasion of Bukhara.</span>
            </span> fought there. Now all of the <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">walls and fortresses</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">suwar ū qalʿa ū arg</span>
            </span> and some of the buildings still remain, but - in the words of the holy Qur'an
            - <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">"and it was an empty and ruined town"</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">The longer passge is: "Or such as he who passed by a city that
                    was fallen down upon its turrets; he said, 'How shall God give life to this now
                    it is dead?'" (Q 2:259)</span>
            </span>. The people of Paykand excavate this area to find silver and gold coins, and
            other old artifacts, and in this manner make their living. The reason for the ruination
            of this province is twofold: first, the Arab armies devastated it during the conquest
            [of the 7th and 8th centuries]; second, sand has enveloped it. For these two reasons,
            the province has fallen into ruin.</p>
      <h3 id="loc46">Ghijduvan</h3>
      <p>The third province is the <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">district</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">qażā</span>
            </span> of Kharqānrūd. This province of Ghijduvan is an ancient city and great
            land.</p>
      <p>This province is long; it spans from the <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">plain</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">qir (Turkic origin)</span>
            </span> of Bābā Dūghī to the <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">hill</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">tall</span>
            </span> of Ghandak. East-West it is nine farsakhs of pasture and farmland.</p>
      <p>Inside the <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">fortress</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">Qurghan</span>
            </span> there are a number of ancient structures, including a stone bathhouse, as
            well as a stone <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">sufi lodge</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">khānaqāh</span>
            </span> at the head of the <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">shrine</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">mazār</span>
            </span> of Shaykh Tāj al-Dīn. Inside the city there are seven other mosques. Also
            inside that city are one thousand households. The cities of Pirmast and Sultanabad run
            right up against the fortress,
            along which flows a ditch [of water].
             At the head of the <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">Abd al-Khaliq shrine</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">Shaykh Abd al-Khaliq Ghijduwani's shrine is the first stop of
                    the "seven saints" pilgrimage circuit.</span>
            </span> at the outskirts of the city there is a <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">stone madrasa built by Ulugh Beg</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">This madrasa built by the famous Timurid prince still
                    stands.</span>
            </span>.</p>
      <p>Most of the people are Kazakhs of Nur-Ata who come to this province to work; they do not
            go to Bukhara itself. </p>
      <p>The people of this province are constantly injured by <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">fireworks</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">bi-ātash-bāzī ū mūshak-andāzī</span>
            </span> during the holidays . Every year several individuals are killed or injured.
            Nevertheless, they persist in this activity;
            despite their learnedness [in this city], they devote great foolishness to this
                pursuit.
        </p>
      <p>Across five hundred and sixty villages there are 715 mosques and twenty-six
            congregational mosques. </p>
      <p>In the village of Bāy-Khātūn, at the fut of a great mulberry tree on the road to
            Bukhara, there is a <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">footprint shrine</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">qadam-gāh</span>
            </span> of Bahā’ al-Dīn [Naqshband] from when he was on <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">pilgrimage</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">ziyārat</span>
            </span> to the shrine of ʿAbd al-Khāliq. Halting a fourth of a Farsakh from the
            village of Unf al-Bayān, on the way back from the pilgrimage, every person travelling
            from Bukhara to Ghijduvan can see the sacred footprints at the aforementioned mulberry
            tree.</p>
      <h3 id="loc48">Wabkand</h3>
      <p>The third province of Bukhara is the province of Kamat, i.e. Wabkand. The <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">province</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">tūmān</span>
            </span> of Kamat is better known as Wabkand</p>
      <p>The bazar [Wabkand] is rich and prosperous, and the weather of the province is
            good.</p>
      <p>In terms of remnants of ancient ruins, there is a stone minaret built by <span class="dropdown ">
                <span class="gloss">Arp Aslan Khan</span>
                <span class="dropdown-content">A famous Seljuk sultan (r. 1063-1072)</span>
            </span>, who built it in the year 455 hijri [1063-1064 CE]. The mosque of that
            [minaret] was destroyed by an <span class="dropdown ">
            <span class="gloss">earthquake</span>
            <span class="dropdown-content">ḥarakat-i arż</span>
         </span>. Now there is a five-prayer
            mosque located nearby the [old] minaret, as well as a stone madrasa, and a partial sufi
            lodge with numerous <span class="dropdown ">
            <span class="gloss">dorms</span>
            <span class="dropdown-content">ḥujrāt</span>
         </span> next to the shrine of Mir Khurd.</p>
      <p>In terms of other ancient remnants, the ruins of
            Shar Narchaq
             are also located in this province, a half-farsakh from the district center.</p>
      <p>Most of the denizens of this region are merchants or otherwise well off.</p>
      <p>The agriculture of this province is also good.</p>
      <p>In this province there are three thousand households of descendants of the original
            <span class="dropdown ">
            <span class="gloss">Muslim conquerors</span>
            <span class="dropdown-content">mujāhidīn-i Islām</span>
         </span>, from the Arab Najib tribe. [In all], this
            province has five hundred and nine villages.</p>
      <p>This province has four hundred and sixty mosques and twelve <span class="dropdown ">
            <span class="gloss">sufi lodges</span>
            <span class="dropdown-content">khānaqāh-i
            ʿaydayn wa jumaʿa khwānī</span>
         </span>.</p>
      <p>The total number of residents of this province is fifty thousand households. Of the
            Turkic tribes, the Manghits, the Saray, and the Nayman are many in this province. And
            there are also Tajiks.</p>
      <p>According to local lore, Abu Ali Ibn Sina was from the village of Narchaq. Others say he
            was from
            [a different village]
             . However, according to the book Rawżat al-Ṣafāʾ [Ibn Sina] was from a village to the
            south of Bukhara.</p>
   </body>
</html>
