<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet"
            type="text/css"
            href="../rsrc/css/reading_view_css.css"/>
      <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Cinzel" rel="stylesheet"/>
      <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Yrsa" rel="stylesheet"/>
      <title>Gulshani English</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h2>
                ToC
            </h2>
      <hr/>
      <ol>
         <li>
            <a href="#loc47">Qarakol Province</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#loc46">Ghijduvan</a>
         </li>
         <li>
            <a href="#loc48">Wabkand</a>
         </li>
      </ol>
      <h2>Sections</h2>
      <h3 id="loc47">Qarakol Province</h3>
      <p>The second <span class="dropdown">
            <span class="gloss">province</span> 
            <span class="dropdown-content">wilāyat ū ḥukūmat</span>
         </span>
            of the provinces of Bukhara is the <span class="dropdown">district<span class="dropdown-content">qaẓā</span>
         </span> of Qarakol. Its distance from Bukhara the Noble is seven
                    <span class="dropdown">farsakhs<span class="dropdown-content">A "farsakh" is an old Persian unit of
                    measurement, around 4 miles.</span>
         </span>. This province is vast and
            populous. The denizens of this province are all well-off, and all of them <span class="dropdown">have
                    livestock<span class="dropdown-content">have herds</span>
         </span>. In the past, this
            province was even vaster; [but then] in the span of a century, sand enveloped a quarter
            of the province from the west, north, and south. Nevertheless, [Qarakol is among] the
            most propserous of the provinces. Due to a <span class="dropdown">lack of learning<span class="dropdown-content">ʿadam-i ʿilm</span>
         </span>, the population does not engage
            in trade. However, in this province there are many individuals who own more than one or
            two million <span class="dropdown">Tanga <span class="dropdown-content">a currency</span>
         </span>, and many
            of them are even wealthier than the Bukharan merchants. Qarakol [sheep] skins are well
            known for their high value, and are even more prized in <span class="dropdown">Europe<span class="dropdown-content">Ūrūpā ū Farangistān</span>
         </span> than in Bukhara, and are
            obtainable in greater numbers and earlier [in the season] than in other provinces.</p>
      <p>In this province there is: one <span class="dropdown">brick and mortar<span class="dropdown-content">sangīn</span>
         </span> madrasa and one <span class="dropdown">qārī-khāna<span class="dropdown-content">Qur'an recitation center</span>
         </span>; adjacent to the
                    <span class="dropdown">fortress<span class="dropdown-content"/>Qurghan</span> are seven
                <span class="dropdown">sufi lodges<span class="dropdown-content">khānaqāh</span>
         </span> (both wooden
            and stone) and eighteen mosques. [The province] comprises 809 villages, which contain
            150,000 residents. </p>
      <p>Water in this province is inadequate, but despite that, agriculture is good. In a bad
            [drought] year, the land is irrigated, which leads to a strong harvest.</p>
      <p>To the west of this province is a salt mine, located four farsakhs <span class="dropdown">from the
                    center<span class="dropdown-content">az markaz-i qażā-yi ān</span>
         </span>. Every
            year around ten thousand individuals beset by <span class="dropdown">illnesses of the nerves<span class="dropdown-content">amrāż-i ʿaṣabānī</span>
         </span>, such as
            check
             come to this salt mine for treatment. Even foreigners consider the mineral water from
            this mine to be superior to others.</p>
      <p>To the east of this province, in the territory of Paykand, there is a ruin in the sand.
            This is in fact the original, ancient city of Bukhara, and
            Abdallah bin Ziyad [an Arab general during the 8th (?) century]
             fought there. Now all of the <span class="dropdown">walls and fortresses<span class="dropdown-content">suwar
                    ū qalʿa ū arg</span>
         </span> and some of the buildings still remain, but - in
            the words of the holy Qur'an -
            ???
             . The people of Paykand excavate this area to find silver and gold coins, and other old
            artifacts, and in this manner make their living. The reason for the ruination of this
            province is twofold: first, the Arab armies devastated it during the conquest [of the
            7th and 8th centuries]; second, sand has enveloped it. For these two reasons, the
            province has fallen into ruin. </p>
      <h3 id="loc46">Ghijduvan</h3>
      <p>The third province is the <span class="dropdown">district<span class="dropdown-content">qażā</span>
         </span>
            of Kharqānrūd. This province of Ghijduvan is an ancient city and great land. </p>
      <p>This province is long; it spans from the plain (qir) of Bābā Dūghī to the hill (tall) of
            Ghandak. East-West it is nine Farsakhs of pasture and farmland. </p>
      <p>Inside the fortress (Qurghan) there are a number of ancient structures, including a
            stone bathhouse, as well as a stone Sufi lodge (khānaqāh) at the head of the shrine
            (mazār) of Shaykh Tāj al-Dīn. Inside the city there are seven other mosques.
            REVSIT rest of section
        </p>
      <p>Most of the people are Kazakhs of Nur-Ata who come to this province to work; they do not
            go to Bukhara itself. </p>
      <p>The people of this province
            are constantly injured from their penchant for fireworks
             . Every year several individuals are killed or injured. Nevertheless, they persist in
            this activity.
            FINISH section
        </p>
      <p>Across five hundred and sixty villages there are 715 mosques and twenty-six
            congregational mosques. </p>
      <p>In the village of Bāy-Khātūn, at the fut of a great mulberry tree on the road to
            Bukhara, there is a footprint shrine (qadam-gāh) of Bahā’ al-Dīn [Naqshband] from when
            he was on pilgrimage (ziyārat) to the shrine of ʿAbd al-Khāliq. Halting a fourth of a
            Farsakh from the village of Unf al-Bayān, on the way back from the pilgrimage, every
            person travelling from Bukhara to Ghijduvan can see the sacred footprints at the
            aforementioned mulberry tree.</p>
      <h3 id="loc48">Wabkand</h3>
      <p>The third province of Bukhara is the province of Kamat, i.e. Wabkand. The province
            (tūmān) of Kamat is better known as Wabkand</p>
      <p>The bazar [Wabkand] is rich and prosperous, and the weather of the province is
            good.</p>
      <p>In terms of remnants of ancient ruins, there is a stone minaret built by Arp Aslan Khan
            [a Seljuk ruler], who built it in the year 455 hijri [1063-1064 CE]. The mosque of that
            [minaret] was destroyed by an earthquake (ḥarakat-i arż). Now there is a five-prayer
            mosque located nearby the [old] minaret, as well as a stone madrasa, and a partial sufi
            lodge with numerous dorms (ḥujrāt) next to the shrine of Mir Khurd.</p>
      <p>In terms of other ancient remnants, the ruins of
            Shar Narchaq
             are also located in this province, a half-Farsakh from the district center.</p>
      <p>Most of the denizens of this region are merchants or otherwise well off.</p>
      <p>The agriculture of this province is also good.</p>
      <p>In this province there are three thousand households of descendants of the original
            Muslim conquerors (mujāhidīn-i Islām), from the Arab Najib tribe.
            revisit
        </p>
      <p>This province has four hundred and sixty mosques and twelve sufi lodges (khānaqāh-i
            ʿaydayn wa jumaʿa khwānī).</p>
      <p>The total number of residents of this province is fifty thousand households. Of the
            Turkic tribes, the Manghits, the Saray, and the Nayman are many in this province. And
            there are also Tajiks.</p>
      <p>According to local lore, Abu Ali Ibn Sina was from the village of Narchaq. Others say he
            was from
            check name
             . However, according to the book Rawżat al-Ṣafāʾ [Ibn Sina] was from a village to the
            south of Bukhara.</p>
   </body>
</html>
